THIS WAS FINAL YEAR DISSERTATION ALSO PRESENTED IN IEEE XPLORE AS PART OF CONFERENCE PROCEEDING HELD IN SRI SAIRAM ENGINEERING COLLEGE

We propose an idea where we enhance the waste bins by featuring it with a level indicating sensor integrated to the internet using Wi-Fi Module. The whole setup is connected to a central microcontroller. Likewise, all the Bins in an area are given the similar configuration, and these are interconnected wirelessly. Each area is distinguished and is given a separate new identification in the ‘Coordination Controller.’ This is a web portal designed precisely where all the data of the bins are accumulated online in this portal. So by a pre-fed algorithm, the Coordination Controller will be able to determine which area needs immediate attention. The trucks will be fitted with a GPS sensor, and an App-enabled PDA will be handed to the driver. So when an area needs immediate attention, the nearby truck is notified immediately. The algorithm prioritizes areas on a basis like Schools; Hospitals are given high priority, while the less critical area is given least priority. It will be able to analyze which area requires regular attention based on the history and will provide it with a high priority. So if a particular area has a maximum waste generation, based on a pattern that area will be offered primary priority. So when the level of a bin reaches a maximum, it’ll be immediately reported through the Coordination Controller to the nearby truck and that particular container is emptied. This method is Simple, Cheap and easy to implement. This will benefit over the older process in many ways. The wastes are managed efficiently, regular collection ensures. Littering and overflow of waste is prevented. Schools and Hospital areas can be kept clean. A Microcontroller, Wi-Fi Module and the level sensor will be able to change the way Waste is managed.

a. The system is automated and involves internet of things (IOT) were all the system output, sensor processing, feedback is send automatically to the assigned person personal mobile and can be monitored from a central processing system anywhere across the whole world.
b. When load inside the waste bin reaches to a specified marginal value it automatically sends a default alert notification to the assigned controller or truck driver to an App through Wi-Fi connectivity.
c. Proximity sensor enabled outside the trash bins at appropriate positions, so if any trash is kept outside it automatically triggers a buzzer sound indicating the trash needs to be thrown inside the bin.


